Dear DHL,

Thank you for forwarding your rate proposal for 2017. Unfortunately, with continual rate increases in spite of repeated agreements to contrary and a stagnate level of service your prices have ceased to be competitive. Such a flagrant increase of rates is not justified by the global macro-economic factors proposed here to do so. This proposal is in violation of a verbal agreement made with us earlier this year and an exploit of our business relationship. 
To begin, the macro-economic factors on which DHL depends have not increased to any degree to justify the proposed rate increase. Firstly, the inflation for 2017 is approximately 3.45% for 2016, down 0.77% from 2015 according to the Stat Bureau. Next, the USD increased less than 3% since 2015, down approximately 2% from the increase 2014-2015. Contrarily, the price of oil has decreased to approximately one third of its value in early 2014 and is in fact near a 10 year low. Despite, improving economic conditions, the proposed rate increase for 2017 is 150% of what it was for 2016. What is the justification for this?
In previous years, the rising cost of oil was used to justify rate increases, at which time exchange rates and inflation increased as they do currently. Now, however, that oil prices provide no justification these tenuous excuses are brought to the table. Oil is the most salient cost factor of a freight company such as DHL and these decreases far outweigh these meager and to-be-expected increases due to inflation and exchange rates. 


https://www.statbureau.org/en/india/inflation


Furthermore, in prior agreements, we have been assured that an increase in the number of our shipments with DHL would open the door to lower prices. Since then, we have increased our shipments to more than double the original commitment of 300 parcels per month, and yet, instead of providing us with bulk discounts, we are being gouged with rate hikes. This is disingenuous, if not dishonest. 
Successful businesses depend upon clear and honest cooperation with eachother. We have been enticed into further cooperation with DHL via promises of discounts in exchange for volume increase. We have performed our part of the agreement. We have more than doubled our volume, where are the discounts?
Operating in the extremely competitive field of e-commerce, we work on thin margins in order to provide the best value to our customers and remain competitive. Although we are for the most part satisfied with DHL service, and would like to increase the portion of our shipments which utilize the service, we cannot do so with a rate increase of 15%. Such an increase would render your services prohibitively expensive, and the consequences of this are clear. As a result, we cannot accept a rate increase in excess of 2-3%.
Regards,
