

In one embodiment, selection of the pore structure matrix in the energy storage layer 116, selection of the separator paper for the separator 120, and selection of the electrolyte 122 provide an opportunity to tune the performance of the resulting GEC 100. By matching the ion size of the electrolyte 122 to the pore size of the energy storage layer 116 and the ion conductor size of the separator 120, highly efficient ion transport can be established producing much higher energy densities.

Despite the fact that individual graphene sheets have an exceptionally high specific surface area, flat-shaped graphene sheets prepared by conventional routes have a great tendency to re-stack together or overlap with one another, thereby dramatically reducing the specific surface area that is accessible by the electrolyte. This phenomenon is illustrated in FIG. 2, wherein several single-layer graphene sheets overlap and re-stack tightly. There is no discernable gap or pore between two graphene sheets that are overlapped together. By contrast, FIG. 1 shows a new breed of graphene that is herein referred to as the curved graphene platelet or sheet. We were surprised to observe that curved NGPs of the instant invention were capable of forming a meso-porous structure having a desired pore size range (e.g. 2-25 nm, mostly 4-15 nm) when they were stacked together to form an electrode. Further surprisingly, this size range appears to be conducive to being accessible by an ionic liquid, which is significantly larger in size than other types of electrolyte molecules (e.g., KOH in an aqueous electrolyte). The meso pores constituted by the presently invented curved NGPs also appear to be capable of forming electric double layer charges therein, leading to an exceptionally high specific capacitance.
[0049]
Further, we were also surprised to observe that the curved NGP-based electrode appears to be highly compatible with ionic liquid electrolyte, enabling the ionic liquid to be operated at an exceptionally high voltage, V (V typically >3.5 volts and often >4.5 volts). A larger working voltage implies a much higher specific energy density according to E=½CcellV2, where Ccell=specific capacitance of the cell.
[0050]
The curved NGPs may be produced by using the following procedures:
(a) dispersing or immersing a laminar graphite material (e.g., natural graphite powder) in a mixture of an intercalant and an oxidant (e.g., concentrated sulfuric acid and nitric acid, respectively) to obtain a graphite intercalation compound (GIC) or graphite oxide (GO);
(b) exposing the resulting GIC or GO to a thermal shock, preferably in a temperature range of 600-1,100° C. for a short period of time (typically 15 to 60 seconds), to obtain exfoliated graphite or graphite worms (some oxidized NGPs with a thickness <100 nm could be formed at this stage if the intercalation/oxidation step was allowed to proceed for a sufficiently long duration of time; e.g. 24 hours);
(c) re-dispersing the exfoliated graphite to a liquid medium containing an acid (e.g., sulfuric acid), an oxidizing agent (e.g. nitric acid), or an organic solvent (e.g., NMP) to form a suspension. Stirring, mechanical shearing, or ultrasonication can be used to break up graphite worms to form oxidized NGPs to accelerate the dispersion step;
(d) aerosolizing the graphene-liquid solution into liquid droplets containing single or multiple NGPs while concurrently removing the liquid to recover curved NGPs.
https://www.google.com/patents/US20120026643
https://www.google.ch/patents/CN105632783A?cl=en&dq=graphene+capacitor+redox+electrolyte&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiGvISNw5TRAhVD2RoKHa5KDukQ6AEIHDAA
